[Ruby] Port exceptions concept exercise from C# (#2311)
exercism/v3: languages/ruby/exercises/concept/exceptions/.docs/introduction.md

> Exceptions in Ruby, as in many languages, provide a way of dealing with unexpected events. Proper handling of exceptions is important when trying to prevent your program from crashing.

Reviewer: I like the text in this introduction!

```

In case we want to stop this shut down process we need to react to the exception. This is called "rescuing" an exception:

```ruby
begin
  # ...any code that raises an exception
rescue
  puts 'Got an exception'
end
```

This program will not crash and it'll output "Got an exception". Instead of exiting, Ruby runs the code in the rescue block, which prints out a message.

As everything in Ruby, exceptions are also objects and they usually hold data about the exception. This is how we can get the exception object:

```ruby
begin
  # ...any code that raises an exception
rescue => e
  puts "Exception class: #{ e.class.name }"
  puts "Exception Message:#{e.message}"
end
```

In Ruby it's also possible to raise your own exceptions. For example:

```ruby
begin
  raise ArgumentError.new("Invalid argument")
rescue ArgumentError => e
  puts e.message
end
```

The previous exception is one of the [Ruby's built in exceptions][ruby-exceptions] but it's also possible to define custom exceptions and raise them:

```ruby
class CustomError < StandardError
end

raise CustomError.new()
```

```ruby
UnsupportedOperation = Class.new(StandardError)

raise UnsupportedOperation.new()
end

> ```

Reviewer: This example gives away the solution to the exercise. Maybe use the same class name as the above example and mention that it could also be written as (and then have this example).

Author: I think I'm going to get rid of this example, not many people use this `Class.new` syntax. I personally like it, but probably, that's not a good enough reason to add it here 😄

Reviewer: This could be perfect for the concept document (what previously would have been the `after.md` document). Note that we've udated the spec (see https://github.com/exercism/v3/issues/2293) and that there is no longer an `after.md` document.

> Exceptions in Ruby as in most languages provide a way of dealing with unexpected events. Proper handling of exceptions is important when trying to prevent your program from crashing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Exceptions in Ruby, as in many languages, provide a way of dealing with unexpected events. Proper handling of exceptions is important when trying to prevent your program from crashing.
```

More than 600 languages that I am aware of, but I have not quantified that most do this, probably safer, and less time sensitive, to state "many" rather than "most".

I might also change "unexpected events" to "exceptional events" since many events may be expected to happen that might still raise an exception.  Those exceptional events are the ones that we can manage.  The unexpected ones, we probably don't ever expect.

> When an exception is raised in your code, either by raising it explicitly or by Ruby interpreter raising it itself. The program stops and eventually exit with an error message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an exception is raised in your code, either by raising it explicitly or by Ruby interpreter raising it itself. The program stops and eventually exit with an error message:
```
```suggestion
When an exception is raised, either by raising it explicitly or by the Ruby interpreter raising it, the program diverts normal operation and eventually exits with an error message:
```

```ruby
raise ArgumentError.new("Something went wrong!")
=> Traceback (most recent call last):
.
.
ArgumentError (Something went wrong!)
```

```ruby
1/0
=> Traceback (most recent call last):
.
.
ZeroDivisionError (divided by 0)
```

> In case we want to stop this shut down process we need to react to the error. This is called "rescuing" and exception:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case we want to stop this shut down process we need to react to the exception. This is called "rescuing" an exception:
```

Because it isn't always an error.

```ruby
begin
  # ...any code that raises an exception
rescue

>   puts 'Got an exception'

Reviewer 2: We might mention here that we can output to standard error rather than standard out. (Not necessarily this line, but this line specifically reminds me about it, since it is going to standard out, which may not be desirable.

Reviewer: I don't think this information is something that necessarily belongs to the introduction, as it is just used to demonstrate the syntax. So my suggestion would be to only mention the standard error in the concept document (see https://github.com/exercism/v3/issues/2293).

end
```

> This program will not crash and it'll output "Got an exception". Instead of exiting, Ruby runs the code in the rescue block, which prints out a message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This program will not crash and it will output "Got an exception". Instead of exiting, Ruby runs the code in the rescue block, which outputs a message.
```
 Contractions can be confusing for "English as a not first language" reader.

As everything in Ruby, exceptions are also objects and they usually hold data about the exception. This is how we can get the exception object:

```ruby
begin
  # ...any code that raises an exception
rescue => e
  puts "Exception class: #{ e.class.name }"

>   puts"Exception Message:#{e.message}"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  puts "Exception Message:#{e.message}"
```

end
```

In Ruby it's also possible to raise your own exceptions. For example:

```ruby
begin
  raise ArgumentError.new("Invalid argument")
rescue ArgumentError => e
  puts e.message
end
```

The previous exception is one of the [Ruby's built in exceptions][ruby-exceptions] but it's also possible to define custom exceptions and raise them:

```ruby

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

class CustomError < StandardError
end

raise CustomError.new()

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

```ruby
UnsupportedOperation = Class.new(StandardError)

raise UnsupportedOperation.new()
end

> 

Reviewer 2: The example is the minimum.  Do we cover the signature of a custom `Exception` and the ability to provide for custom messaging?  Even a default message?

Author: Good point. I tried to keep the introduction to the minimum, but I agree, something about the `Exception` signature and one example will be nice to have. I'll add a small description an example

Reviewer: >  I tried to keep the introduction to the minimum

Which is great!

> Do we cover the signature of a custom Exception and the ability to provide for custom messaging? Even a default message?

Remember to keep in mind that the introduction should only contain what is needed for the student to solve the exercise. If the exercise doesn't rely on custom message, it should not be part of the introduction (it can of course be part of the concept document).

> [ruby-exceptions]: https://www.honeybadger.io/blog/understanding-the-ruby-exception-hierarchy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# [ruby-exceptions]: https://www.honeybadger.io/blog/understanding-the-ruby-exception-hierarchy
```

Or perhaps outside of the code block.

Reviewer 3: I think the ``` is missing above this.

Author: Yes, I put the ``` on the wrong place

Reviewer: We don't usually link to external resources in the introduction. As per [the docs](https://github.com/exercism/v3/blob/master/docs/concept-exercises.md#docsintroductionmd):

> Links should be used sparingly, if at all. While a link explaining a complex topic like recursion might be useful, for most concepts the links will provide more information than needed so explaining things concisely inline should be the aim.

The student also doesn't really have to understand the hierarchy to solve the exercise, I would suggest removing this link and only have the link in the `after.md` document (and possibly the `hints.md` document).

As everything in Ruby, exceptions are also objects and they usually hold data about the exception. This is how we can get the exception object:

```ruby
begin
  # ...any code that raises an exception
rescue => e
  puts "Exception class: #{ e.class.name }"
  puts "Exception Message:#{e.message}"
end
```

In Ruby it's also possible to raise your own exceptions. For example:

```ruby
begin
  raise ArgumentError.new("Invalid argument")
rescue ArgumentError => e
  puts e.message
end
```

The previous exception is one of the Ruby's built in exceptions but it's also possible to define custom exceptions and raise them:

```ruby
class CustomError < StandardError
end

raise CustomError.new("Something went wrong")
```

These custom errors are subclasses of the `StandardError` class. Because custom errors are also a class, it's possible to add methods to it like in any other class.

```ruby
class CustomError < StandardError
  attr_reader :action

  def initialize(message, action)
    # Call the parent's constructor to set the message
    super(message)

    @action = action
  end
end

raise CustomError.new("Something went wrong", :send_notification)

> ```

Reviewer: Is this information needed to solve the exercise? Looking at the example implementation, I don't think it is.

Author: True ti can be part of the new about.md
